# Elevetor-System
Elevator (lift) management
####What is required here is to implement a system that manages one lift that works in an N-story building. And the program should take a list of pressed buttons requesting the lift and decide how to serve the request.####

Although implementing a working elevator algorithm that manages elevators is hard, the first idea that came to our mind to MODEL its working was to use a queue for the different pressed buttons requesting the lift at different floors of the building, so that they will be served using the queue data structure i.e. FIFO, those who request first will be served first and when a new request comes, it will be put at the end (enqueue). But this idea didn’t seem to work well, as it won’t be fair.
Assume the building is a 100 story building. And assume initially the building was at the 30th floor. Now, imagine a button request was made at floors 93, 14, 22, 20, and 28. Here the lift would have to serve (go to) the 93rd, the 14th … The problem here is that the 93rd floor is so far that the others have to wait for a very long time before they are served. Making elevators serve clients fairly (in this case one lift), is one of the things that make them require complex algorithms and make the implementations hard. So a second thought came; to use a list as a data structure and instead of serving the requests based on their time of arrival, serving them by deciding which way to go using the relative distances from the initial floor. Assume the requests are 93, 14, 22, and 28 for a 100 story building. So what the program does is that first it sorts it i.e. it becomes 14, 22, 28, 93. The initial/current location of the lift is at floor 30. So the program will insert decide which way to go by calculating the relative distances, serves the shortest/ closest floor. The program will make the lift decide to serve in the order 30> 28>22>14>0 or ground then finally to floor 93.
The process might not really mimic the real world elevator workings since we assumed that each floors of the N-story building have only one button and also assumed that if a lift arrives to a certain floor then it’s considered served.
